<h1>
Your Neighbour
</h1>
<p>
God intends for us to live by what is called God's "will" or God's "law." Jesus referred to God's law as God's "commandment" or "word." Jesus taught that it is God's will or intention for us to love our "neighbour."

When asked which is the "greatest" of God's commandments, Jesus replied, <font color= "blue">"You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like it: You shall love your neighbour as yourself" (Matt 22:37-39)</font>.<br>

What does it mean to "love your neighbour." Love means "to value" or "to appreciate." We love whatever we believe is valuable or has "worth." Our love for other persons is shown by our respect or appreciation for their "value" or "worth." According to Jesus, respect for others is demonstrated by doing to others as you wish others would do to you (Matt 7:12; Luke 6:31). This is known as the "Golden Rule."</p>
<p>
Jesus taught that it is God's will, or law, for us to love our "neighbour." In response to the question, "Who is my neighbour," Jesus told the parable we call "The Good Samaritan," as follows:
<font color= "blue">“A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, who stripped him of his clothing, wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead. Now by chance a certain priest came down that road. And when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. Likewise a Levite, when he arrived at the place, came and looked, and passed by on the other side. But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was. And when he saw him, he had compassion. So he went to him and bandaged his wounds, pouring on oil and wine; and he set him on his own animal, brought him to an inn, and took care of him. On the next day, when he departed, he took out two denarii, gave them to the innkeeper, and said to him, "Take care of him; and whatever more you spend, when I come again, I will repay you." So which of these three do you think was neighbour to him who fell among the thieves?”
And he said, “He who showed mercy on him.” Then Jesus said to him, “Go and do likewise.” (Luke 10:30-37).</font>

In this parable, the man who was robbed and beaten was travelling "from Jerusalem to Jericho" (two cities in Judea). The implication of this geographical location is that the man was a Jew (from Judea). The man who showed compassion on him was a Samaritan. This is significant because Samaritans and Jews generally did not like each other because of racial and religious differences. Each considered the other to be an "enemy."

The fact that a Samaritan had compassion on an "enemy" suggests that we should have compassion on anyone who is suffering, even those we consider our "enemies." This seems to be supported by Jesus' teaching, <font color= "blue">"Love your enemies, do good to those who hate you" (Luke 6:27)<font>.

To "love your enemies" has always been a teaching that is hard to accept. We usually consider our "enemies" to be those persons who have done something wrong to us or to someone else. To "love your enemies" does not mean that we should accept their wrong behaviour. On the other hand, we sometimes consider others to be our "enemies" simply because they are "different" from us. This is a mistake. But regardless of why we consider others to be our "enemies," we must always be ready "to do good to those who hate you" (Luke 6:27). We must always be ready to have compassion on anyone who suffers, even our enemies. We must not respond with hatred toward those who hate us.

Jesus told the parable of the good Samaritan in response to the question, "Who is my neighbour?" Of course, one of the "neighbours" in the story was the man who was suffering and needed help. But the primary example of a "neighbour" in the story was the Samaritan who had compassion and helped the suffering man. Anyone who demonstrates compassion by helping others is a "neighbour" whom we should love. The race and religion of that "neighbour," or other identifying characteristics, do not matter. Persons are to be judged solely on how they treat others.</p>
<p>
Jesus taught that it is God's will, or law, for people to love each other. Any failure to love others is disobedience to God's will or "law." Disobedience to God's law is called "sin." We seldom hear the word "sin" today but it means "failure to love."

The parable of the good Samaritan is important because it shows us what it means to disobey God's law of "love for other persons." In the parable, we see two kinds of "failure to love."

The robbers who robbed and beat the man demonstrated an "active" failure to love by causing the man to suffer. The priest and Levite demonstrated a "passive" failure to love by being indifferent to the suffering of the man. To cause human suffering or to be indifferent to human suffering are both "failures to love," and therefore "disobedience to God."</p>