<h1>
Temptation
</h1>
<p><font color= "blue">
"... Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors. And do not lead us into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. ..." (Matt 6:12-13)</font> 
<p>
Of course the Bible is deeply relevant to our personal lives. But sometimes we need to just pause and ask "What exactly is the Bible saying"? before we presume we know what’s it’s all about. What does Jesus mean by this word temptation? And what is so bad about it?</p>
<p>
Do you notice that <i>"do not lead us into temptation"</i> is the only negative request in the Lord’s Prayer? All the others are positive, asking God to do something. <i>"Give us this day our daily bread."</i>, <i>"And forgive us our debts</i>,". But <i>"And do not lead us into temptation"</i> is the only thing in this prayer that we specifically ask God not to do. It’s a serious thing. Surely it’s not just about game shows and chocolate?</p>
<p>
Well if you looked up any decent Bible Dictionary you’d soon find that the word "temptation" is the same as the word "testing" in the original language of Jesus’ day. A "test" is something you do to somebody to see what they’re made of, to check out their performance. So another way of saying this line of the prayer is, "Lead us not into testing".</p>
<p>
The word "testing" is actually the name of a place in the Bible. There’s a place called Massah in the Bible—and Massah means "place of testing". Massah is one of those places with a story behind it. 

And it’s the same with Massah (Ex 16-17). Just to set the scene—God had just delivered His special people Israel, from slavery in Egypt. God parted the waters of the Red Sea, and the Israelites escaped from the Egyptians:
(Ex 14:30-31)

Now you’d think Israel would be grateful and would trust God after that amazing miraculous rescue. But no! The first thing Israel did on being rescued was to whinge! You see, on the other side of the Red Sea was wilderness, desert, and as soon as Israel got into the desert, they whinged that they were thirsty! Even though God had just parted the Red Sea, even though God had just shown them His awesome power over walls of water, they whinged that God couldn’t give them a few mouthfuls of water in the desert! God gave them water—He was faithful. But next, they whinged about food. So God gave them bread, bread from heaven—He was faithful. But when He gave them the bread, He also gave them a test: (Ex 16:4)

In the interests of time I compressed the story of Exodus and Numbers somewhat, just bringing out the salient points:

Then again, in the very next chapter, the people complained about being thirsty. (Ex 17:2)

Again, they get their water—God was faithful. But Moses was fed up. (Ex 17:7)

This is bad, this testing of God. Can you see why it is so horrible? God had saved this people. He had shown His unconditional, undying love for them. He’d carved up the ocean for them, for goodness sake! But there in the wilderness, the people wouldn’t trust Him. They wouldn’t trust that God cared for them, that He would give them little things like food and water. They complained, they tested. And God knew their hearts weren’t right. So instead of a relationship of love and trust it became a relationship of testing, of suspicion. It’s like God and Israel are a newly wed husband and wife, and on the honeymoon, the wife complains that her husband doesn’t love her and wishes she were back home, single again and the husband suspects something, so he sets up surveillance cameras and hires a Private Eye just to check up on her. On the honeymoon! At Massah, Israel tested God. God tested Israel. Mutual love turned into mutual suspicion.

And it didn’t end there. The whole Bible is full of references to Massah, to the place where the relationship between Israel and God turned sour as soon as it started. Look at Psa 95, for example: (Psa 95:7-11)

An explanation of Jesus’ successful recapitulation of the story of Israel was needed before moving to application:

But when Jesus came, more than 1,000 years later, something wonderful happened. You see, Jesus succeeded where Israel had failed. In Matthew chapter 4, after Jesus is baptised (Matthew chapter 3), He comes out of the water. 
(Matt 4:1-11)

Jesus is sort of reliving the experience of Israel. God’s Spirit led Him into the desert to be tempted. It’s as if God led Jesus back into Massah. He didn’t eat for forty days. And He was hungry, starving. But Jesus didn’t do what Israel did in the desert. Jesus did the opposite of Israel. No complaining, no whingeing

The evil one came, the devil, Satan. He tested Jesus. He lied. He tried to capitalise on Jesus’ weakness and hunger. He quoted the Bible at Jesus, verses out of context, trying to get Jesus to stop trusting His Father. And what did Jesus do? He refused to test God. He trusted God, He served God, He worshipped God, even in this most extreme situation. He proved through His obedience that the relationship between Him and God His Father is one of pure love. No suspicion. No testing required on either side.

Then we move on to talk about the relevance of Jesus for us and our situation, through His death on the cross:

What has that got to do with us? When Jesus died on the cross for us, He brought us into a perfect relationship with God. He brought complete forgiveness by His death. And He rose from the dead, to bring us life. He gives us a relationship with God as dearly loved children. The kind of relationship where God is pleased with us—because He is pleased with Jesus. A relationship with God where there is love, not suspicion; trusting, not testing.</p>
<p>
And you can see that by the kind of prayer Jesus gives His disciples to pray. The Lord’s Prayer is a prayer of trust in God our Father. It begins "Our Father in Heaven". You can only pray the Lord’s Prayer if you trust God as your heavenly Father, like Jesus did. You can only pray this prayer if you trust that God’s name is wonderful and holy (hallowed be your name), that His kingdom and His will is the best thing for us, that He will give us our daily bread, that He will forgive us our sins.</p>
<p>
And so when you pray, "Lead us not into temptation", you’re asking God to keep you trusting Him, to stop you from doubting His loving care for you, to form you more and more as His child, just like Jesus.</p>
<h3>
Applying Matt 6:13
</h3>
<p>
Hence the prayer of Matt 6:13 is a prayer of confident trust, asking God to keep us trusting His loving care for us. It is a prayer that God our Father will keep our focus firmly on His ultimate act of care and provision for us: the deliverance from sin provided by Jesus’ death on the cross. It is a prayer that, in the midst of the common trials of this life, God will help us remember that He is not distant from us, He is not standing back and testing us to see if we will obey, He is not inflicting these things on us as a test; but that He is lovingly refining us and making us more like His Son Jesus Christ. It is a prayer asking God to "give us our daily bread", not to test us to see if we will obey Him (as He did when He gave bread to the people in the wilderness), but simply to provide us with what we need as a loving heavenly Father. It is a prayer to deliver us out of the clutches of Satan, who lies to us, who tells us that God does not have our best interests at heart in the midst of these trials, who wants us to become suspicious of our Father and forget how much He loves us. The evil one wants us to think that we know best, and that God doesn’t love us as much as we love ourselves. We may not know exactly why we are suffering; like Job, we may never find out the precise reason for until the Lord returns – all we may know is that God is compassionate and merciful in our suffering (James 5:11). But that is enough.</p>

Of course, when life is easy it’s easier to trust God’s care for you, isn’t it? But how do you react when things are tough? When it looks like God’s abandoned you?

You see, in our life, things can sometimes look a lot like they did for Israel back at Massah. The Israelites passed through the Red Sea—they were saved from slavery and mortal danger. But out in the desert, they were thirsty. They were hungry. They knew God had saved them. But they felt that had to test God to see if He was really still with them. They suspected that God had just brought them out into the desert to starve to death. You might be tempted to think the same thing. You might be confident that God has done the big things for you—saved you, died on the cross for you, given you eternal life. But you might start to think—that’s all very well, but does God actually care about me day to day? Especially when I’m hungry or thirsty or in pain, grieving, abandoned, used, persecuted, ripped off, depressed. You might start to think that God is testing you. That He’s fiddling with your life. Up there in heaven with His computer watching you on the screen, and putting various tests in your way to see how you’ll react. Tempting you.</p>
<p>
James has a lot to say about testing, trials and temptation (James 1:12-15). James tells us that God never tempts us. God is quite simply not like that. He is our heavenly Father, not our heavenly examiner. There are trials in our lives. But these trials aren’t tests from God to see if we’re worthy, as if He didn’t know already. No, they’re simply there to show to us and the world that we are God’s children. To make us more like Jesus.</p>
<p>
But Satan, the evil One, is still hanging around, waiting to lie to us. Wanting to tell us that God doesn’t really care about us. That God doesn’t really know what’s best for us. Or if He does He doesn’t care, that He’s a meany who’s giving us these tests just to see what we’ll do. The greatest lie we can ever hear from the Evil One is that God doesn’t care for the people He saved, that God has saved us through the precious blood of Jesus … only to bring us in the desert to starve to death. Satan wants us to believe that we really should give in to the trial and just, well, just do what’s easiest, just sin, just give in to our own evil desires. And when we do that, when we suspect God’s goodness and stop trusting Him, that is temptation. That’s why we need to pray: "Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one".</p>
<>
When would you need to pray, "Lead me not into temptation"?

Maybe you have accepted that Jesus died for you and brought you into heaven … But you still think your life is a desert wilderness, and you need stuff to fill up the void. You suspect God because you don’t trust that He will give you what you need. So instead of generosity and love, your life is about greed and holding on to things that you don’t really need. Satan is just as active in material things as he is in spiritual things. You need to pray, "Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one"

Maybe you are tempted when it comes to your relationships. Maybe you’re unhappy with whatever relationships you have, or unhappy because you don’t have a relationship that you long for. You may be single, widowed, divorced, married, friendless, unappreciated, just tired of giving. And you know that God has saved you from sin, and given you eternal life. But you suspect that He doesn’t really have your best interests at heart when it comes to these human relationships. And you think He’s being mean; He’s saved you from the greatest enemy of all—sin and death—but He’s just brought you into a dry desert wilderness and He’s not going to give you anything to drink.</p>
<p>
Of course, that can lead to disaster, can’t it? You are tempted to look for other ways to gratify your desires, ways that God hates. You join in with your mates when they drink too much so you’ll be accepted by them. Or you look for cheap thrills. But you don’t care because God doesn’t seem to care for you. You need to pray, "Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one", trusting God’s goodness, even in the desert.

Addiction can be a form of temptation too, can’t it? When you start to feel that some thing can look after you, or ease the pain, because you think that God doesn’t care. Whether it’s alcohol or pornography or sex or even food.

Of course, it might be helpful to take some active steps to remove these temptations from your life. Don’t watch the TV shows that provoke you to greed or lust. Put blocking software on your computer. Whatever. But the most important thing you can do is to pray.</p>
<p>
And do you know, this is quite an amazing prayer? Because the act of praying is itself part of the answer to the prayer! If you ask God to not lead you into temptation, to help you to trust Him, that prayer is itself an act of trust. When you talk to God, you trust Him. And the more you trust, the less you suspect Him of being mean, and the less you are tempted; because you know that God is good to you, even in the hard times.

You may not know why your life seems like a desert now. You may never know until the end of time. But we do know that God is our Father. And God is our Father because Jesus has died for us and made us God’s children.
</p>