<h1>
Meditate in the Word of God
</h1>
<h3>
Meditation
</h3>
<p>
This is what will strengthen our faith and courage: attention to God's word.<br>

"Oh, how I love Your law! It is my meditation all the day. You, through Your commandments, make me wiser than my enemies; (Psa 119:97-98)</p>
How sweet are Your words to my taste, sweeter than honey to my mouth!(Psa 119:103),</p> 
Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path" (Psa 119:105)<br>
We learn wisdom from God as we meditate on His word.

What does it mean to meditate? Do we assume a lotus position and hum? Do we erase all thoughts from our mind and try to merge our thoughts with the Great Beyond? No. That sort of thing comes from Eastern religion. To meditate means to think about, mull over, ponder. This very kind of Bible study we're engaged in involves us in the process of meditation. We have the text and a list of questions: What? Why? Where? Who? And so we read and think and try to understand. That is meditation.

Someone said that studying the Scripture was like "thinking God's thoughts after him."I like that. When we read the Word of God we are doing that, retracing in our minds what God is thinking. The more we do that, the more we begin to understand God and the way he thinks. The more we leave the mindset of our secular world-view, we are "transformed by the renewing of our mind" (Rom 12:2). With it comes faith, a confidence in God.

In a classic statement of the role of scripture in this, Paul writes, "Faith comes from hearing the message, and the message is heard through the word of Christ" (Rom 10:17).

So God's encouragement and exhortation to Joshua that day met his needs:

Faith Assurance: "I will never leave you or forsake you" (1:5)
Faith Exhortation: "Be strong and very courageous" (1:6,9)
Faith Food: "Meditate on it day and night" (1:8)
God's success formula (1:8b)

With these instructions come the keys to prosperity and success: "then you will be prosperous and successful" (1:8b).

I see book stores full of books on "success." You can buy tapes to reprogram your mind to think successful thoughts. And so on. And much of what they say is true. But it is not complete.

The world says...

God says...

Trust in yourself

Trust in me. I will never leave you.... (1:5)

Boldly strive for your dream

Be strong and very courageous and step out to possess the land, because I will be with you (1:9)

Think good thoughts, positive thoughts

Meditate on God's word (1:8a)

Then you will be prosperous and successful

Then you will be prosperous and successful (1:8b)

Be aware of the differences. Faith in self will ultimately disappoint us. We are told not to do that in the Bible.

"Trust in the LORD with all your heart and lean not on your own understanding; in all your ways acknowledge him,
and he will make your paths straight." (Prov 3:5-6)
The world says: be bold, strive for your dream, take risks. And these things are important. But our motivation for boldness is faith in God's promises.

While positive thinking is essential to faith, it is not faith itself. It only opens they way to faith thoughts within us.

"Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is noble, whatever is right, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is admirable--if anything is excellent or praiseworthy -- think about such things" (Phil 4:8)
Positive thinking is a partial truth, not a full truth. The full truth is that we should meditate on God's word, not just motivational hype. Jesus said,

"If you hold to (Greek <i>meno</i>, continue in, abide in) my teaching, you are really my disciples. Then you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free" (John 8:31-32).
The world tempts us with the promise of prosperity and success without God. But the fact is, that whatever measure of prosperity and success we find without God will profit us nothing in the long run. Jesus tells us: "Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God" (Matt 4:4 quoting Deut 8:3). He says, "You cannot serve God and Money" (Matt 6:24). He says, "What good will it be for a man if he gains the whole world, yet forfeits his soul? Or what can a man give in exchange for his soul?" (Matt 16:26)</p>

