<h1>
Good or Bad Disciples
<h1>
 <p><font color= "blue">
“... The kingdom of heaven is like a man who sowed good seed in his field; but while men slept, his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat and went his way. But when the grain had sprouted and produced a crop, then the tares also appeared. So the servants of the owner came and said to him, "Sir, did you not sow good seed in your field? How then does it have tares?"  He said to them, "An enemy has done this." The servants said to him, "Do you want us then to go and gather them up?". But he said, "No, lest while you gather up the tares you also uproot the wheat with them. Let both grow together until the harvest, and at the time of harvest I will say to the reapers, “First gather together the tares and bind them in bundles to burn them, but gather the wheat into my barn.”
(Matt 13:24-30)</font></p>
<p>
Jesus teaches in this parable that the seed is sown in the man’s field but that during the night while they slept, his enemy came and sowed the weeds among the wheat.
There are a few things worth noting here. First, the soil was good in this parable. The farmer had nothing to worry about. But it was his enemy who came and sowed the tares in the soil after the good wheat had been planted there.

We assume the farmer knew what he was doing and that he knew how to grow a crop, or else he would not have planted here if the soil was no good. It is the same with any truth of the Gospel message: only after truth is established and built on a proper foundation–proper “soil” if you will–can deception come in and attempt to choke it out.

You don’t have a tare without wheat, and can’t have a counterfeit unless there was something genuine to imitate. It’s how the devil has always operated. Even as far back as the garden of Eden, that serpent Satan took the truth and twisted it.
<h3>
What was the truth then?
</h3>
<p>
That man would surely die when he ate of the tree of knowledge of good and evil. Satan’s tare he sowed into that soil was the statement he made to Eve “you will not surely die.”

Many deceptions in the church today are usually a twisting of actual eternal truth. They are only a perversion of God’s original intent in something, whether it be sexuality, money, or Gospel doctrines twisted, and whatever else have you.
<h3>
What is a Tare?
</h3>
<p>
It’s a wheat-like weed. It has the appearance of wheat, but is in fact of different quality and source only resembling the actual wheat.

The enemy came in while the master was sleeping. He only comes in and plants his deceptions in areas where the Body of Christ has let its guard down or not stood alert. The Church must never be found asleep, but always vigilant and alert.

It was only over time that both the wheat and the weeds were discovered when the plants had come up, so did the weeds. Implicit in the word “discovered” is the fact the tares weren’t obvious at first until a later point in time. As one grew, so did the other, both resembling the other initially for a time.

In Matt 13:28, one of the servants came to the master and asked how there could be weeds along with the wheat, because they planted good seed and expected to yield a good crop. The enemy only looks for good seed to corrupt, that he might confuse and twist the good word from bearing proper fruit. This is how he’s gotten some ministries off track in distraction with other fruitless pursuits (like we mentioned, with extremes in the realm of financial prosperity for but one example); the weeds grow in the context of the good—in the same field as the wheat.</p>
<p>
Look at Jesus’ explanation of this parable:</p>
<p>
“He answered and said to them: “He who sows the good seed is the Son of Man. The field is the world, the good seeds are the sons of the kingdom, but the tares are the sons of the wicked one. The enemy who sowed them is the devil, the harvest is the end of the age, and the reapers are the angels. Therefore as the tares are gathered and burned in the fire, so it will be at the end of this age. The Son of Man will send out His angels, and they will gather out of His kingdom all things that offend, and those who practice lawlessness, and will cast them into the furnace of fire. There will be wailing and gnashing of teeth. Then the righteous will shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their Father. He who has ears to hear, let him hear!” (Matt 13:37-43)</p>
<p>

What do the false look like, and how will we recognize them?
Unlike the parable of the sower where the seed was the word of God and the soil was the person’s heart, this time the seeds are people– sons of the kingdom and sons of the wicked one, and the field is the world. The false look very much like the true wheat for a season even though it has a different source.

The only thing that distinguishes the true from the false is their source.

Wheat and tares come from different seed and they look very different by harvest time. During harvest season, the wheat matures and gets a full, golden head on its stalk. The weight of the mature head causes it to bow or bend (symbolic in this posture of bowing down in humility).

Tares are not so. In the early stages, the tares look very similar to the wheat, but at harvest they are seen for what they really are.

Translations that render this word tare as simply a weed miss a point that will be lost in the translation from the original text. The head of the tare, instead of golden is somewhat grey and it doesn’t bow (symbolic of stubbornness, and pride). It stands erect above the bowed-over wheat heads and is easy to identify—but again, only close to harvest time.

False phenomena will look very similar to the true for a season and will show up within the same field of holy phenomena as well as in worldly, occult and new age environments. This will be a great opportunity for the church to grow in discernment.

When will the False Phenomena appear?
The following verse offers us the answer to this question. “But when the grain had sprouted and produced a crop, then the tares also appeared.” (Matt 13:26)

When you see true supernatural phenomena begin to manifest, you will also find the false. Again note: in the same field! Do not be surprised when this happens. Jesus said it would happen. The emerging of both will actually serve to identify the true for the Body. You can’t have counterfeits without genuine.

In our parable, the servant asked the landowner if they should uproot the tares when they became evident. The answer was “No; for while you are gathering up the tares, you may uproot the wheat with them.” (Matt 13:29). We must be very careful not to “throw the baby out with the bathwater”, so-to-speak. The Lord will teach us how to respond to this when it happens (note: not “if” it happens).

The devil throws a lot of false and counterfeits at us, so as to distract us from the genuine article.
Friends, the devil also does not create anything, he merely counterfeits something already designed beforehand.

The servants in this parable shouldn’t be faulted with desiring to remove the weeds. In some gardens and with some plants, this is a logical solution.

Every summer as a teenager I’d pull weeds out of my parent's garden for cosmetic reasons, and if I had waited too long before yanking some of those weeds out of the ground, they were more established in that soil than one would have liked, and you’d uproot more than you wanted.

The master in this parable states something interesting; he says

“Let both grow together until the harvest, and at the harvest time I will tell the reapers, Gather the weeds first and bind them in bundles to be burned, but gather the wheat into my barn.” (Matt 13:30)

All causes of sin, and all law-breakers are removed—notice now—from the kingdom, not from the world. Even though Jesus teaches that the field in this parable is the world, it’s the kingdom all these things will be uprooted from. Preaching or talking about what God will remove from His kingdom is not really as popular as preaching about “your best life now”.</p>