<h1>
The New Way of the Spirit
</h1>
<p>
If God has already made his new covenant with Christians, what effect does this have on their relationship to Old Testament law? Some might assume that it means a Christian must now fulfil the law not only according to the letter, but also according to its full spirit and intent. Thus, the obedience demands of the law are intensified and are even more binding on a Christian.

This view assumes that much of the law of the old covenant is simply transferred into the new covenant, with the additional benefit of the Holy Spirit. Such a view is flawed, as can be seen in the example of circumcision. If God expects Christians to fulfil both the letter and spirit of the law, then all males must be physically and spiritually circumcised. The early New Testament church decisively rejected this conclusion at the Council of Jerusalem.

This position sees everything in terms of laws to be obeyed, with Jesus Christ providing the perfect example of obedience and the Holy Spirit providing the power to obey the laws. It inevitably leads to legalism because it focuses on law rather than on Christ.

The extreme opposite of this view is that Christians are under "grace," and therefore all law is abolished. However, this view leads to antinomianism (Rom 3:8), which Paul strongly rejected. Rather, he upheld the law (Rom 3:31) and made it clear that being under "grace" was not license to sin (Rom 6:15–23).

The alternative to both these extremes is that under the terms of the new covenant a Christian’s relationship to Old Testament law is transformed rather than intensified or abolished. This is brought out in Rom 6 and 7. Paul explains that Christians "are not under law, but under grace" (Rom 6:14) and that they "died to the law through the body of Christ" (Rom 7:4). He writes,

By dying to what once bound us, we have been released from the law so that we serve in the new way of the Spirit, and not in the old way of the written code. (Rom 7:6)

This is elaborated in 2 Cor 3, where Paul contrasts the administrations of the old and new covenants:

He [God] has made us competent as ministers of a new covenant — not of the letter but of the Spirit; for the letter kills, but the Spirit gives life. (2 Cor 3:6)

So under the new covenant Christians serve in a "new way" — the way of the Spirit. The "old way" of the written code has been superseded. It has ended because the old covenant was a temporary system designed to act as a guardian for the nation Israel until the Messiah came (Gal 3:19). Humanity’s relationship to God is no longer regulated by a written law code on tables of stone or in a book, as it was for ancient Israel. It is now based on faith in Jesus Christ (Gal 3:22–24). "Now that faith has come, we are no longer under the supervision of the law" (Gal 3:25).

In what way, then, is our relationship to old covenant law transformed through faith in Jesus Christ?

"Christ is the end of the law so that there may be righteousness for everyone who believes" (Rom 10:4). In this verse, it is best understood in the latter sense, that Christ is the fulfilment of the law. He brought the law to completion by perfectly obeying its demands and by fulfilling its types and prophecies. Through his life and death, Jesus fulfilled all the righteous requirements of the law, thereby freeing Christians from the condemnation of the law.

A major purpose of God’s law is to lead humans to Christ by convicting them of sin. But because believers are justified by Christ’s righteousness, the law has no claim over them in the legal sense. After explaining in Romans 7 the accusatory nature of the law and that rescue is through Jesus Christ, Paul writes,

There is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, because through Christ Jesus the law of the Spirit of life set me free from the law of sin and death. (Romans 8:1–2)

As its fulfilment, Jesus Christ transcends the law. This is what Jesus meant in Matthew 5:17-19: "Do not think I have come to abolish the Law or the Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to fulfil them." Jesus’ teaching does not abolish the Law or the Prophets, but brings them to their intended eschatological climax. (For a discussion on this passage, see Appendix One.)

In terms of the new covenant, the law no longer exists in the form of a written code apart from Jesus. God’s law, in its spirit and intent, exists in Christ alone. He is greater than the law. The law kills, but the Spirit, which we receive by faith in Christ, gives life (2 Cor. 3:6). Fulfilling the law is through trusting him rather than obedience to an external written code.

Our spiritual connection with God is based on a personal relationship with Christ, not on obedience to an impersonal list of rules. Living faith can be to Jesus Christ only, because salvation is through him.</p>
<h3>
The Law of Christ
</h3>
<p>
In 1 Cor 9:20–21 Paul explains his approach in preaching the gospel, and in doing so he revealed which law he obeyed:

To the Jews I became like a Jew, to win the Jews. To those under the law I became like one under the law (though I myself am not under the law), so as to win those under the law. To those not having law I became like one not having the law (though I am not free from God’s law but am under Christ’s law), so as to win those not having the law.

Paul describes himself as not being under the law. From the context it is obvious he means Mosaic Law, the law of the old covenant. But this does not mean he saw himself as without law. Paul was not free from God’s law — he was now under "Christ’s law." It is important to appreciate this distinction. The Mosaic Law was God’s law for the nation of Israel under the old covenant. The "law of Christ" is God’s law for Christians in the New Testament era. The two are not the same.

Serving in the new way of the Spirit rather than the old way of the written code is what Paul describes as fulfilling "the law of Christ" (Galatians 6:2). In Galatians he used the term in the context of bearing each other’s burdens. Yet the thought behind the phrase encompasses all that Paul wrote concerning living in Christ. Fulfilling the law of Christ is the way of holiness, as opposed to legalism or antinomianism.
This law of Christ is not a law in the legal sense of the word, but the life principle of all who take up his cross of creative suffering. 

Paul used the phrase "law of Christ" after writing about living "by the Spirit" (Gal 5:16, 25) as opposed to living "under law" (Gal 5:18). Because the Galatian members were so enamoured with law, Paul used the word law in a way they had not anticipated. They were not under Mosaic Law, but they were under the law of Christ, which required them to bear each other’s burdens.

In arguing against the position that Christians are no longer under the law, the Judaizer would claim that this would lead to antinomianism. Paul’s response to this reasoning is summarised by John Montgomery Boice:

Finally, the opponents of Paul charged that the Gospel he preached led to loose living. By stressing the law, Judaism had stressed morality. Jews looked down on Gentile sin and excesses. But what would happen if the law should be taken away? Clearly, lawlessness and immorality would increase, the legalisers argued.

Paul replies that this is not true (chapters 5, 6). It is not true because Christianity does not lead the believer away from the law into nothingness. It leads him to Jesus Christ, who, in the person of the Holy Spirit, comes to dwell within him and furnishes him with the new nature that alone is capable of doing what God desires. The change is internal. So it is from within rather than without that the Holy Spirit produces the fruit that is "love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control" (Gal 5:22-23). Life in the Spirit is free from and above the kind of religion that would result in either legalism or license. It is true freedom — a freedom to serve God fully, unencumbered by the shackles of sin or regulations. 

All this, said Paul, is fulfilling the law of Christ. Law? After the struggle he had gone through to get the law properly placed in his thinking and in his own life, after getting the Galatians free from their entanglement with the law — why on earth did Paul turn again to that word? Was it to give the Galatians a totally new conception of law? Here law undoubtedly means for him the way of Christ, the principles on which the Christian life operates, the act itself of love, of putting into daily living all that he had written about burden-bearing and about the restoration of those who trespass. 

Equating the law of Christ with the way of Christ hearkens back to Jesus’ parting words to the disciples before His death. Jesus said to them:

A new command I give you: Love one another. As I have loved you, so you must love one another. By this all men will know that you are my disciples, if you love one another. (John 13:34–35)

Jesus was expanding the injunction in Lev 19:18, which Paul quoted in Gal 5:14, "Love your neighbour as yourself." Christians show they are disciples of Jesus Christ by loving one another as he loves them. The Gospels record how Jesus loved. He was not particularly concerned with the externalities of religious observance, but he was concerned with "the more important matters of the law — justice, mercy and faithfulness" (Matt 23:23) and "the love of God" (Luke 11:42). He ministered to people in their suffering, he showed them the love of God through kindness, compassion and mercy, and he forgave their sins. To follow the examples and teachings of Jesus that he gave for the church fulfils the law of Christ.

F.F. Bruce identifies features of the law of Christ in Romans 12 and 13, showing how Paul reiterates major teachings of Jesus. He links them with Jesus’ Sermon on the Mount.

Mutual love, sympathy and esteem within the believing brotherhood are to be expected, but this section [Rom 12:9–21] enjoins love and forgiveness towards those outside the brotherhood, not least towards its enemies and persecutors. 
Paul’s conclusion concerning law is found in Rom 13:8–10:

Let no debt remain outstanding, except the continuing debt to love one another, for he who loves his fellow man has fulfilled the law. The commandments, "Do not commit adultery," "Do not murder," "Do not steal," "Do not covet," and whatever other commandment there may be, are summed up in this one rule: "Love your neighbour as yourself." Love does no harm to its neighbour. Therefore love is the fulfilment of the law.

For Paul, a Christian’s obligation was to love, and everything else was secondary. Regarding circumcision, for example, Paul wrote:

For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor non circumcision has any value. The only thing that counts is faith expressing itself through love. (Gal 5:6)

The Judaizers who wanted Gentiles to be circumcised and come under the Law of Moses were not motivated by love. Paul saw this and clearly identified them as false brothers (Gal 2:4). They wanted to bring the Gentiles into a form of religious bondage under their control (Gal 4:17; 6:13). Because their motivations were not right, they violated the law of Christ.

Fulfilling the law of Christ is people-oriented rather than task-oriented. It focuses on relationships, not works of law. The law of Christ cannot be imposed according to an externalised written code because it is written in the heart of the Christian. A written code cannot encompass the law of Christ because it would need to encompass Christ, which is impossible. Christ’s law is an internal principle and way of godly living that produces "love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness and self-control. Against such things there is no law" (Gal 5:22–23).

Under the old covenant, the Israelites lived according to the Law of Moses. Under the new covenant, Christians are to live according to the law of Christ. The difference is love generated by the Holy Spirit. It is possible to fulfil outwardly the Law of Moses without love in your heart. It is impossible to fulfil the law of Christ unless there is love in your heart.</p>
<h3>
Legalism versus the Spirit
</h3>
<p>
The result of attempting to relate to God through obedience to Old Testament law, or even to a "New Testament" set of rules, is to descend into legalism. Christianity becomes regulations. The gospel is reduced to a law system.

Just as old covenant Israelites knew what their obligations were by reading the law, so Christian legalists can look to their set of rules, whatever they may be, to know what they should do. The rules vary according to the religious tradition of the legalists. For some, it would be Sabbath and Holy Day observance, scrupulously setting aside tithes and avoiding "unclean meat" at all costs. These behaviours are not wrong, but it is wrong to observe them in a legalistic manner, as the Pharisees did. In other churches, the rules can include strict Sunday observance, no drinking of alcohol, no dancing or going to movies, vegetarianism, rejecting blood transfusions to save life, etc. Decisions are easier in this black-and-white approach, and it results in generally good behaviour. But it omits the weightier matters of the law that require spiritual discernment and sometimes difficult decisions as to which principle is most important.

Legalistic rules also become the measuring stick by which behaviour (both one’s own and that of others) is judged as acceptable or deviant. All Christians have to do is follow the rules and perform their religious duties and thereby believe God is on their side. The problem with this approach is that the legalists faith is in their rules and not in Christ to lead and teach them by his Spirit to understand the spiritual intent of the law. Often without realizing it, legalists rest in their own works instead of the redemptive work of Christ.

Christians today can choose to live according to Mosaic Law, just as Jewish Christians did in the first century a.d. However, their law-keeping will not cause God to give them his Spirit and work miracles in their lives (Galatians 3:5). Nor will it lead them into a deeper understanding of spiritual truths, compared to those who live according to the law of Christ. The opposite may even be true, because the more Christians rely on law to direct them, the less they rely on the Spirit. It seems that it is impossible to rely on law and the Spirit simultaneously — it’s either one or the other.

This is the point Paul makes in Galatians 3:1–5. The Galatians had received the Spirit through believing in Christ, not through human observance of the law. Paul asks, "After beginning with the Spirit, are you now trying to attain your goal by human effort?" (verse 3).

Can adherence to the Law of Moses work contrary to the law of Christ? The answer is yes. Consider the New Testament example of the woman caught in adultery (John 8:3–11). The Law of Moses called for the death penalty by stoning (verse 5), but Jesus did not condemn her. Instead, he demonstrated kindness, mercy and forgiveness. This was an example of the law of Christ in action. God has replaced the administration of death by the "more glorious" administration of the Spirit (2 Corinthians 3:9) — old rules are set aside so that more important principles can prevail — in this case, mercy.

Another example is found in Matthew 12:1–8. In response to the Pharisees accusations that Jesus’ disciples were breaking the Sabbath by picking heads of grain, Jesus referred to the incident when David ate the consecrated bread from the tabernacle of God, something that was lawful for Levites only. However, because David was hungry and there was nothing else to eat, God did not regard his eating of the bread as sinful. David’s actions were not lawful according to the Law of Moses, but because of the circumstances he was blameless. Mercy is more important than strict obedience, which, in that case, could have imperilled human life (see verse 7).6 The lesson is that compassion is a better guide to godly behaviour than blind adherence to rules.

Legalism continues to exist today in many denominational traditions — wherever Christians define and limit their dealings with others according to the rules of a written law code.

There is no doubt that Christian legalists are sincere in their preoccupation with rules, though their thoughts and actions may be contrary to the law of Christ. Legalists are deceived in their belief that the letter of the law is paramount to God and that God is more concerned with obedience to rules and regulations than with expressing the love of Christ in relationships. For legalists, law takes precedence over people. Legalists dishonour God’s name when they make the genuine needs of people secondary to an imperative to fulfil the letter of the law.</p>
<h3>
Conclusion
</h3>
<p>
Christians are called to live a holy life in obedience to Christ. They are to live by every word of God as it applies to them. The law system applying to Christians now is not the law of the Old Testament, but the law of Christ. It is not a written code that one defines by rules and regulations. It is the application of God’s living law of love that affects every area of our lives.

This does not mean that Christians discard Old Testament law as if it has no relevance to them today. There is much relevance because it expresses the will of God for a particular people during a particular age. The principles underlying many Mosaic laws are valid for Christians today. 

Jesus never attacks the Law and, indeed, asserts its enduring validity. But it is only as taken up into Jesus’ teaching, and thus fulfilled, that the Law retains its validity. The Law comes to those living on this side of the cross only through the filter of its fulfilment in Christ the Lord. 

Often the application of the law of Christ coincides with laws and principles in the Old Testament. Sometimes it does not. But whenever there is a conflict between them, the law of Christ prevails because it more fully expresses the will of God.