Time to grow up
Hebrews 5:12
"You have been Christians for a long time now. So you should be teaching God’s word to other people. But in fact, you are not ready to do this. In fact, you have not yet learned even the first lessons that Christians should learn."

That is what the author seems to say in Hebrews 5:12. But it cannot be his real meaning. If they really needed to learn those first lessons, he would teach them those lessons. A good teacher does not teach any lesson until his students are ready to learn it. But the author will soon return to his explanation of Jesus’ work as chief priest.

Really, the author is encouraging his readers to study God’s word in a more careful manner. At the present time, they become tired quickly when the author tries to teach them (Hebrews 5:11). They say that his lessons are too hard. And they ask for someone to teach them some easy lessons again. They like to hear about love and kindness (Hebrews 6:10). Lessons about those things make them happy. But the purpose of the Christian life is not to be happy. It is to become mature as sons and daughters of the living God.

That is why the author speaks about milk and solid food. At that time, a child continued to receive its mother’s milk until the child was about 4 years old. And when the mother refused to give milk, the child became angry and afraid. The child still wanted milk. But it was time to grow up and to become more mature.

A similar thing was happening to those Christians. They needed to become more mature. But it felt difficult to them. They preferred only to think happy thoughts about love and kindness.

There is nothing wrong with lessons about love and kindness. They are among the things that Christians consider important. But, as the author will explain (Hebrews 6:1-2), the real first lessons for Christians are actually more difficult than those ones.
Why Christians need to become mature
Hebrews 5:13-14
The author explains why Christians need to become mature. Christians must not believe everything that people try to teach them. Many ideas that people teach are wrong and dangerous (Hebrews 13:9). So a Christian needs to know whether something is good or bad. And he cannot decide that merely by his own thoughts and opinions. Instead, he must use his knowledge of God’s word, that is, the Bible.

Hebrews 5:13 calls the Bible "the word of righteousness". Righteousness means the right way to live. It is the Bible that teaches us the right way to live (Psalm 1:1-2). But a Christian who does not know the Bible is like a baby. And the first things that he learns are like milk. They give him the strength that he needs to begin his Christian life. They show him how to start to serve God. And they help to prepare him for the time when he will become more mature as a Christian.

But those first lessons are not enough for a person’s whole life as a Christian. A mother’s milk is only suitable for a little child. As the child becomes older, he must start to eat proper food. And as a Christian develops, he must study the Bible more carefully. He needs to gain experience to know whether people’s ideas about God are good or bad.

That knowledge comes from the Bible. And it also comes by the work of the Holy Spirit in a person’s life.

