Growing Up Spiritually 

Introduction 

Growing up spiritually is a process that takes time. The fivefold ministry gifts (apostle, prophet, evangelist, pastor and teacher) are given to help build up the body of Christ so it can grow into maturity and do the work of the ministry. Just like a person starts as a baby in the natural realm, and grows into adulthood, the same is true spiritually. Every born again Christian begins his or her walk as a spiritual baby but must mature. The fivefold ministry gifts are given to the body of the Christ to help us mature and grow spiritually.
And He Himself gave some to be apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, and some pastors and teachers, for the equipping of the saints for the work of ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ, till we all come to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to a perfect man, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ; that we should no longer be children, tossed to and fro and carried about with every wind of doctrine, by the trickery of men, in the cunning craftiness of deceitful plotting, but, speaking the truth in love, may grow up in all things into Him who is the head—Christ (Eph 4:11-15). 

God wants us to grow up so we can each do the work of the ministry. 
The ministry gifts are given to help Believers to grow up spiritually. 

Growing in spiritual maturity 

To be effective in ministry, we must grow out of spiritual "babyhood." Don't condemn people who just became born again when they make mistakes; they are still babies. Babies must grow into maturity. Help new Christians grow into maturity by showing them the correct way to live the Christian life.
 Babies need nourishment (milk) in order to grow. "as newborn babes, desire the pure milk of the word, that you may grow thereby"(1 Peter 2:2).

Born again innocence 

There are three primary characteristics of babies. Babies are innocent. When you become born again, you become innocent; your past is wiped out because of the saving power of God and the blood of Jesus.
 Babies are ignorant. Babies must be taught the Word of God so they will know how to live the Christian life. A baby must be supervised so he or she doesn't put anything harmful in his or her mouth.
 New Christians must be mindful of the information they feed their spirits. Just because a book, tape or meeting claims to be founded on Christian principles doesn't mean it lines up with the Word of God. Don't put things in your spirit that will challenge the Word of God and cause confusion. Don't follow people just because they say they are Christians. Check to see what kind of spiritual fruit they are producing in their lives.
 Babies are irritable. Babies become spoiled easily and must be weaned from things they are used to and comfortable with Surely I have calmed and quieted my soul, like a weaned child with his mother (Psa 131:2). We should celebrate when Christians wean themselves from the things they are used to and move to the next level in their walk with God So the child grew and was weaned 
(Gen 21:8). 

When you grow up spiritually, you are ready to do the work of the ministry
