Milk of the Word for the Unskilled 
<>
The metaphor of an infant receiving milk is quite appropriate for describing this condition. A little child receives nourishment, not directly from solid food, but indirectly—only after the food has been processed through someone else (its mother). In the same way, the Hebrew Christians were not receiving their spiritual nourishment directly from God. They were relying on human teachers and were receiving only “the basic principles of the oracles of God.” In other words, they were receiving spiritual sustenance, but only second hand.

Now there’s inherently nothing wrong with milk. In fact, it is a necessity for those in the initial stages of life. Likewise, those who recently “having been born again” (1 Pet. 1:23) and “ as newborn babes, desire the pure milk of the word, that you may grow thereby” (1 Pet. 2:2). It is proper for those who have been recently converted to begin with the basic principles of Scripture, and it is wise for them to start by learning from others. But just as it would be ridiculous for a teenager to still be dependent on his mother’s milk, it is not God’s plan that believers should continue to gain their nourishment from others.

Unfortunately, however, far too many are content to remain at the infant stage of their Christian walk. Many of those who fill the pews each week gather their sole spiritual sustenance from what their pastor imparts to them. And even among those who attempt a daily devotional life, how many limit themselves to reading one short page from a devotional book—still getting their only nourishment second hand? Or how many skim over a few Psalms in the morning before hurrying off to the rest of their day, thus feeling that they have “put in their time” with God? 

Not just for Theologians 

Thankfully, Scripture also records positive examples of those who went beyond the infancy stage in their experience with God’s Word. One particular group that is commended is the Berean Jews. According to Acts 17, Paul and Silas had to escape to Berea after a less-than-friendly response from the Jews of Thessalonica. What they then found in Berea was encouraging: “These were more fair-minded than those in Thessalonica, in that they received the word with all readiness, and searched the Scriptures daily to find out whether these things were so” (Acts 17:11). The basis for the description of these Jews as “fair-minded” is their approach to Scripture. They examined the Scriptures for themselves to determine whether the claims of Paul and Silas were true.
“We should not take the testimony of any man as to what the Scriptures teach, but should study the words of God for ourselves”.

But is it really possible for just anyone to engage in a deep study of God’s word for himself or herself? Isn’t that the job of scholars and theologians? While recognising that scholarly study can lead to increased insights regarding many texts “careful research”), it is also imperative to realise that one does not have to be a scholar to gain a deep understanding of the majority of Scripture. 
“The Bible was not written for the scholar alone; on the contrary, it was designed for the common people”.
“But the natural man does not receive the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him; nor can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned” (1 Cor. 2:14).
 In other words, because the Bible is a spiritual book, only a Spirit-directed person can truly understand it. The implication of this statement is that a converted layperson, honestly and earnestly seeking to understand truth, will attain to a depth of understanding that an unbelieving scholar, studying the Bible merely as an academic exercise, will never reach.

Making it a Reality 

Although this concept of being taught directly by God is a simple one, studying Scripture seems overwhelming to many people. I suspect that a major reason why so great a number of people do not engage in a personal study of Scripture is that they simply do not know how. 
If people could see that it’s not complicated, perhaps they would make the commitment to dig deeply in Scripture. I discovered personally that once I learned just a few key principles, Scripture really came alive.
 Here are seven quick tips that I have found helpful when studying God’s Word:

Always begin with prayer 

We need to realise that without illumination from the Holy Spirit, we are liable to misinterpret Scripture. Our prayer should be, “Open my eyes, that I may see wondrous things from Your law” (Psa 119:18).
“Never should the Bible be studied without prayer. Before opening its pages we should ask for the enlightenment of the Holy Spirit, and it will be given”.

Read the passage (and its context) several times. This enables you to get an overview—to understand the “big idea” of the passage. At this stage jot down observations and note “key” words (often these words are repeated several times in the passage). It is often helpful to read at different speeds—ranging from a quick skimming to a slow, careful reading.

Compare Scripture with Scripture 

Use a concordance and cross-references to find other Scriptures that help illumine the meaning of the passage you are studying. Many Bibles have a good number of cross-references in the centre column, but the best resource I have found is a book called the "Treasury of Scripture Knowledge." It contains over 500,000 cross-references in one volume. You can access it on-line. Once you have found other Scriptures that shed light on the passage under consideration, then go back to that passage and thoughtfully apply the concepts from those other Scriptures.

Memorise 

One benefit of memorisation is that the very process of fixing the text in your mind forces you to pay closer attention to it than you might have otherwise. Also, having a variety of Scriptures stored in your mind is helpful later on when studying other passages. Take good notes. These notes will be vital for remembering how you arrived at certain conclusions and will prove invaluable for reference in future study. Keep in mind that the data is more important than the conclusions.

Apply and Share 

Apply what you learn to your own life and share it with others. The purpose of Bible study is not just to gain more head knowledge. God wants us to study His Word because it will transform our lives as well as the lives of those around us. Also, sharing what you learn with others is the surest way to prevent yourself from forgetting it. Remember: the more you study the easier it gets. Don’t be discouraged if personal Bible study seems challenging at first. The knowledge you gain from studying one passage will be of great benefit in studying another. Before long the Bible will become a familiar book.

Commitment 

Making the commitment to engage in a deep study of God’s Word may not be easy, but in the end it will be rewarding. The prophet Jeremiah exclaimed,
“Your words were found, and I ate them, and Your word was to me the joy and rejoicing of my heart” (Jer 15:16). This same joy can be ours when we receive spiritual sustenance…not second hand, but directly from the Source.
