<h1>
Questions About Marriage
</h1>
<h3>
General Outlooks on Marriage 
</h3>
<p><font color= "blue">
Now concerning the things about which you wrote, it is good for a man not to touch a woman. But because of immoralities, each man is to have his own wife, and each woman is to have her own husband. The husband must fulfil his duty to his wife, and likewise also the wife to her husband. The wife does not have authority over her own body, but the husband does; and likewise also the husband does not have authority over his own body, but the wife does. Stop depriving one another, except by agreement for a time, so that you may devote yourselves to prayer, and come together again so that Satan will not tempt you because of your lack of self-control. But this I say by way of concession, not of command. Yet I wish that all men were even as I myself am. However, each man has his own gift from God, one in this manner, and another in that. 
But I say to the unmarried and to widows that it is good for them if they remain even as I. But if they do not have self-control, let them marry; for it is better to marry than to burn with passion.(1 Cor 7:1-9)</font></p>
<p>
Paul began this section by referring to the matters that the Corinthians' wrote about (1 Cor 7:1). Paul had previously corresponded with the church (1 Cor 5:9), and they had replied with their own letter (1 Cor 16:17). In this chapter Paul began to respond to a number of issues that the Corinthians had raised in their letter. Paul began with the expression "now concerning" here and elsewhere to indicate that he was responding to questions the Corinthians had raised in their correspondence to him. He introduced several topics in this way: marriage and celibacy (1 Cor 7:1-40); meat sacrificed to idols (1 Cor 8:1 to 1 Cor 11:1); gifts of the Spirit (1 Cor 12:1 to 1 Cor 14:40); offerings (1 Cor 16:1-4); and Apollos' whereabouts (1 Cor 16:12).</p>
<p>
The apostle began by focusing on a particular statement sent to him. The fact that the Corinthians questioned Paul regarding this matter indicates that disagreement existed within the Corinthian church over this issue. Some members of the Corinthian church had gone to the opposite extreme of those who had justified joining themselves to prostitutes (1 Cor 6:12-20). They claimed that it was good for a man not to marry. It is good for a man not to touch a woman. (1 Cor 7:1)("touch" rather than "marry") to indicate that sexual relations in and of themselves are not good. It is stated without qualification, implying that the best choice for everyone in every circumstance is to abstain from sexual relations.</p>
<p>
Some interpreters have understood these words to state Paul's own position. This understanding, however, is less than convincing. In light of Paul's love for the Old Testament Scriptures (Rom 1:2; 15:4; 2 Tim 2:15; 3:16) that advocate marriage (Gen 2:18; Prov 18:22) and children (Gen 13:16; 15:5; Psa 127:3) as blessings from God, it seems unlikely that Paul himself would have suggested celibacy for all people. In fact,  says, "It is not good for the man to be alone." (Gen 2:18) Paul may have paraphrased the position of others in this way to contrast it with the Old Testament outlook. He knew that God himself ordained marriage for the betterment of humanity. Like Jesus before him Paul saw celibacy as an unusual condition (Matt 19:12; 1 Cor 7:7, 26-27). The statement probably reflects an attitude expressed by someone else in the Corinthian church.</p>

To distance himself from the statement delivered to him, Paul raised an issue that should have put the matter to rest. In contrast to the categorical denial of sexual relations, Paul insisted "let each man have his own wife, and let each woman have her own husband." (1 Cor 7:2) The verb "have," used in a sexual context, does not suggest initiating a marriage, but continuing a sexual relationship. It is best to understand Paul not as exhorting unmarried people to marry, but rather married people to carry on continuing sexual relationships with one another (compare 1 Cor 5:1). In support of this view, it should be pointed out that the Corinthian statement spoke of sexual relations between men and women in general, but Paul selected a more specific word for males which rightly translates as husband.</p>
<p>
Paul went on to state his reason (since) for this viewpoint. His concern was not theoretical, but pastoral. He focused on the fact that there was so much immorality. This is most reasonably seen as a reference to the Corinthian church's problems with prostitution (1 Cor 6:15-16) and incest (1 Cor 5:1). While some within the church justified incest and visiting prostitutes, others advocated abstinence even within marriage.</p>
<p>
In Paul's mind there was a connection between these two problems. He believed that these opposite problems were caused by certain Corinthians refusing to have sexual relations with their spouses. To avoid the sexually immoral use of prostitutes, Paul insisted that married couples should fulfil each other's needs.</p>
<p>
Some scholars believe that a faction of women within the Corinthian church may have advocated abstinence within marriage, and that Paul mainly addressed them here. If this is correct, then this division within the church would not only have split the body of believers, but the families within that body by estranging husbands from wives. Thus, Paul may have been working to reconcile families as well as to protect the sanctity of the church.</p>

7:3-4. Marriage protects against the temptations of immorality only when it functions properly. For this reason, Paul spoke explicitly about the marital duty that enjoins partners. The Bible often speaks of sexual relations as a privilege and blessing (Prov 5:18-19; Songs 1:2; 4:9-16; 7:6-13), but married couples also have a duty not to refrain from sexual relations without just cause (Exod 21:10). The Corinthians were defrauding one another of their sexual rights, so Paul pointed out the obligations to sex that married couples bear. In so doing, he made certain to let them know that these obligations were mutual — the husband has a duty to have sexual relations with his wife just as she has a duty to have sex with her husband. Neither partner has the right without good cause to refuse the other.

Paul expressed his view in a remarkable way. The wife's body does not belong to her alone but also to her husband, or as the NASB and NRSV put it, "the wife does not have authority over her own body, but the husband does." Unfortunately, these words have been used to excuse physical abuse by husbands against their wives. They have also been used to compel women to submit to their husbands sexual desires even when these women suffer from physical impairments and illnesses. We must recognize, however, that other teachings of Scripture, such as self-protection and the principle of love, inform us of limitations on Paul's statement. Paul spoke of normal circumstances; he did not try to delineate all of the exemptions from this general rule.

It is important to note that in regards to the issue of authority, Paul emphasized complete parity and mutuality. The husband's body does not belong to him alone but also to his wife. Wives have the same authority over their husbands bodies that husbands have over their wives'. The husband's headship over his wife (Eph 5:23) does not give him the right to demand or practice sexual relations in any way he desires. Such relations must be mutually agreeable. Couples should strive toward the ideal of marriage of which Paul spoke as they evaluate their specific situations and responsibilities. Neither husbands nor wives have license to force abusive sexual desires on their spouses.

7:5-6. In the Christian ideal, spouses must not sexually deprive partners except by mutual consent for a time, and only for special religious purposes: that you may devote yourselves to prayer. Throughout the Old Testament, times of special religious devotion, such as to prayer and fasting, included sexual abstinence (Exod 19:15; 1 Sam 21:4-5). Here Paul made it apparent that such practices were to be carried over into the New Testament as well.

Once the time of special religious devotion is over, the couple must return to normalcy so that Satan will not tempt them to be involved in illicit sexual relations. Paul may well have had in mind the prostitution rampant in Corinth (6:12-20). The longer couples abstain from sex, the greater the risk that one or the other partner will lose self-control and fall into sexual immorality with someone other than his or her spouse.

In allowing couples to abstain from sexual relations for a time by mutual consent, Paul made a concession. He by no means intended to command periods of abstinence. Rather, he commanded that they not deprive each other, making exception only for periods of devotion to prayer.

7:7. Paul also qualified his affirmation of marriage by admitting that in one sense he wished all men were as he. By the phrase "as I am," Paul apparently referred to his unmarried status, and may also have meant to include the fact that he did not burn with passion (compare 7:8-9). Not much is known about Paul's marital history, though it is likely that he was married at one time because marriage was required of rabbis in his day. If Paul was an ordained rabbi, he must have been married for a while, but nothing is known about what happened to his wife. She may have died, or she may have left him when he converted to Christianity. Whatever the case, Paul was single and free from burning sexual passion when he wrote this letter, and he admitted that he saw advantages for everyone in this condition.

Even so, Paul recognized that God does not call all people to single lives unburdened by sexual passion, but each man has his own gift from God. In other words, God blesses one person with the call to be single, and another he calls to marriage. In other passages Paul spoke of the variety of gifts distributed by the Spirit (Rom 12:6-8; 1 Cor 12:1-11, 28-31; Eph 4:8-13). In all of these passages, he indicated that God gives these gifts — they are not the creations of human desire or enterprise — and therefore each various gift is good.

While it is true that some gifts are greater than others (1 Cor 12:31), this greatness does not depend upon an inherent superiority of the gift, but rather on the benefit it brings to the church (1 Cor 14:1-4). In the particular time and situation that Paul addressed in Corinth, it appeared to him that singleness without sexual passion offered more benefits to the church than did marriage. This does not mean that he thought celibacy was necessarily a superior gift to marriage in all instances, and it does not diminish the high value of the gift of marriage. Instead, celibacy was more beneficial in Corinth's particular situation. Further, by pointing out that God gifts different people in different ways, Paul subverted any possibility that reproach might fall on those who married, and removed the opportunity for those who remained single to become prideful in their ability to resist passion.

7:8. Paul concluded his general outlook on marriage by applying his views to the unmarried and the widows. He advised that it is good for them to stay unmarried. The language "it is good" again alludes to Genesis 2:18 where God said of Adam's singleness, "It is not good." In contrast with Genesis 2:18, Paul said that remaining single is good. Paul's viewpoint did not contradict Genesis. Genesis sets up marriage as a creational pattern that remains ordinary, proper, and good for human life in general. Yet, Paul recognized that celibacy had certain benefits over marriage in some situations. He did not immediately state these benefits or situations, but revealed several complex ideas underlying his preference for singleness in 7:29-35. Most significantly, he believed that marriage distracted believers from living in undivided devotion to the Lord (7:35). Spouses must please each other, and this relationship necessarily complicates service to God (7:34).

7:9. Nevertheless, Paul also recognized that reality is usually not ideal. So, he conceded a hierarchy of preferences, with celibacy being the most desirable for the unmarried Corinthians. But the unmarried and the widows were to marry if they could not control themselves sexually. Marriage was not as advantageous as celibacy, but it was better than burn[ing] with passion. The earlier portion of this verse strongly suggests that Paul did not have in mind mere lust of the heart. Literally, he did not say "if they are not able to control themselves," but "if they do not control themselves," that is, "if they lose control and fall into sexual immorality." Paul did not suggest that marriage would eliminate lustful thoughts. He merely suggested that it could help keep believers from involving themselves in physical sexual immorality. 